---
layout: post
title:  "What is Atom?"
date:   2022-09-19 11:23:34 +1000
file: https://github.com/dmnfarrell/podcast-example/raw/master/audio/track1.mp3
categories: atom update
description: "All about atom and rss - test."
duration: "00:50"
length: "1029183"
explicit: "no"
keywords: "atom"
block: "no"
thumbnail: /img/logo.png
---

The name Atom applies to a pair of related Web standards. The Atom Syndication Format is an XML language used for web feeds, while the Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub or APP) is a simple HTTP-based protocol for creating and updating web resources.

Web feeds allow software programs to check for updates published on a website. To provide a web feed, the site owner may use specialized software (such as a content management system) that publishes a list (or "feed") of recent articles or content in a standardized, machine-readable format. The feed can then be downloaded by programs that use it, like websites that syndicate content from the feed, or by feed reader programs that allow internet users to subscribe to feeds and view their content.

<!--more-->

A feed contains entries, which may be headlines, full-text articles, excerpts, summaries or links to content on a website along with various metadata.

The Atom format was developed as an alternative to RSS. Ben Trott, an advocate of the new format that became Atom, believed that RSS had limitations and flaws—such as lack of on-going innovation and its necessity to remain backward compatible—and that there were advantages to a fresh design.

This is a page that generates an episode for a podcast. It should have an audio file associated with it, specified in the file keyword above. When the site is generated the feed.xml file is updated to reflect these posts with all the details for each episode. Each page will also have an embedded player to listen to the audio in the web page.
